# DD2430 Project Course in Data Science
**Group 14 members:** Eric Bröndum, Márk Csizmadia, Christoffer Torgilsman, Wilhelm Ågren


**Assigned project:** *Feature extraction from MEG data* #17


**Background:** Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is a functional neuroimaging technique where the magnetic field generated by neural activity in the brain is recorded.MEG is, just like EEG (where the electrical field is measured) non-invasive in the sense that observations can be done on humans while they perform a task inside the scanner. It has excellent time-resolution and is therefore often used to study time-dependent brain signals, in many cases oscillations of different frequencies. These oscillations change pattern during the brain operation and can also be altered in diseases. We have a collaboration with Stockholm university where data has been collected from healthy participants subject to sleep-deprivation. Feature extraction comprises methods to (unsupervised) extract features in data, features often then used as input to a classification system.

**Mission:** Study and compare ML-algorithms (tentatively self-supervised learning) for feature extraction and use a published network as a reference method. Use data from our project as well as that used in the published work.

**Process:**<br>
1. Read some of the suggested papers and other papers you find relevant.
2. Download algorithm code from open repositories, as well as data and code from open repositories.
3. Design your experiments, including a plan for the statistical evaluation of your tests.
4. Evaluate results both in terms of human judgment and in termsof statistical validity.
5. Write report.

**Difficulty:** 1-3<br>
1. Analysis of features generated by the network and analysis of cluster properties.
2. Comparisonof classes generated to those of the reference method and to expert labels.
3. Statistical analysis of results obtained.

**Supervisor:** Erik Fransén, erikf@kth.se
